Restructure Remote Service doc for Java to include Service Binding based services (#732)
cap-js/docs: java/cqn-services/remote-services.md

synopsis: >
  Remote Services are CQN-based clients to remote APIs that a CAP application consumes. This section describes how to configure and use these services.
status: released

> redirect_from: java/remote-services

Reviewer: Was this change intentional?

{{ $frontmatter.synopsis }}

The CAP Java SDK supports _Remote Services_ for OData V2 and V4 APIs out of the box.

> The CQN query APIs enable [late-cut microservices](../../guides/providing-services#late-cut-microservices) and simplified mocking capabilities. Regarding multitenant applications, these APIs keep you extensible, even towards remote APIs. In addition, they free developers from having to map CQN to OData themselves.

Author: Sone

{{ $frontmatter.synopsis }}

The CAP Java SDK supports _Remote Services_ for OData V2 and V4 APIs out of the box.
The CQN query APIs enable [late-cut microservices](../../guides/providing-services#late-cut-microservices) and simplified mocking capabilities. Regarding multitenant applications, these APIs keep you extensible, even towards remote APIs. In addition, they free developers from having to map CQN to OData themselves.

Cross-cutting aspects like security are provided by configuration. Applications do not need to provide additional code. The CAP Java SDK leverages the [SAP Cloud SDK](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk) and in particular its destination capabilities to cover these aspects. 

> Destinations in Cloud SDK are the means to express and define the remote endpoint including authentication details. Cloud SDK destinations provide a high flexibility of different data sources. They can be resolved from BTP Destination Service, BTP Service Bindings or [programmatic destinations](#programmatic-destination-registration), registered by a CAP application in code. The CAP application can choose the best fitting option for their scenario. CAP nicely integrates with Cloud SDK, for example automatic propagation of tenant and user information from the _Request Context_ to the Cloud SDK is ensured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Destinations in Cloud SDK are the means to express and define connectivity to a remote endpoint including authentication details. Cloud SDK destinations can be created from various sources such as BTP Destination Service or BTP Service Bindings. They can also be defined and registered [programmatically](#programmatic-destination-registration) in code. The application can choose the best fitting option for their scenario. Every Remote Service internally uses a destination for connectivity.

On top of that CAP integrates nicely with Cloud SDK, for example ensuring automatic propagation of tenant and user information from the _Request Context_ to the Cloud SDK.
```

<img src="../assets/remote%20services.drawio.svg" width="700px" class="mute-dark" alt="This graphic depicts the integration of SAP Cloud SDK into SAP CAP Java.">

CAP's clear recommendation is to use _Remote Services_ over directly using the SAP Cloud SDK. However, if you cannot leverage CQN-based _Remote Services_, refer to [service consumption with Cloud SDK](#service-consumption) for details.

::: tip
To learn more about how to use _Remote Services_ end to end read the [Consuming Services cookbook](../../guides/using-services).
:::

## Configuring Remote Services

> To enable _Remote Services_ in an application, add the following Maven dependency to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable _Remote Services_ for OData V2 or V4 APIs in an application, add the following Maven dependency to your project:
```

Based on the following configuration, a destination with name `s4-business-partner-api` will be looked up via the Cloud SDK:

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
```

The CAP Java SDK obtains the destination for a _Remote Service_ from the `DestinationAccessor` using the name, that is configured in the _Remote Service_'s destination configuration.

If you're using the SAP BTP Destination Service, this is the name you used when you defined the destination there. In order to properly resolve the destination from the correct source (e.g. BTP Destination Service, programmatically registered destination), [additional Cloud SDK dependencies](#cloud-sdk-dependencies) will be required.

[Learn more about destinations in the **SAP Cloud SDK documentation**.](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/docs/java/features/connectivity/sdk-connectivity-destination-service){.learn-more}

> As a variant to the described scenario, it is possible to enable multi-tenant CAP applications to lookup the BTP Destination from the subaccount of the subscriber tenant instead of the subaccount in which the CAP application is deployed. This allows you to provide tenant-specific callbacks as extension use cases.

Reviewer: This is the default behaviour already, no explicit configuration is required for this (except the destination dependency in SaaS). Maybe we should rather turn the logic around and describe how to disable this, by setting the right retrieval strategy.

> The subscriber will deploy the extension for example as a dedicated CAP application in its subscriber subaccount and store the necessary URL and credentials in a BTP destination in his subaccount.

Reviewer: Let's rather stick to the S/4 example

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
      retrievalStrategy: "CurrentTenant"
```

The additional parameter `retrievalStrategy: CurrentTenant` ensures that the destination will be looked up from the subscriber account if the tenant is correctly set in the Request Context.

::: tip
As a pre-requisite for destination lookup in subscriber accounts, the CAP application need to define a dependency to the Destination service for their subscriptions e.g. in the SaaS Registry. This can be enabled by setting the `cds.multiTenancy.dependences.destination` to `true` in the configuration.
:::

Retrieval strategies are part of a set of configuration options provided by Cloud SDK which are exposed by CAP Java as part of the configuration for _Remote Services_. For details refer to section about [destination strategies](#destination-strategies).

> ### Service Binding Configuratiion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Service Binding Configuration
```

> If the remote API is running on the BTP, it is likely that you can leverage Service Binding-based _Remote Services_. The CAP Java SDK will extract the relevant information from the service binding to connect to the remote API. The advantage over destination-based _Remote Services_ is the simpler usage. There is no need to externalize configuration (e.g. credentials) for example into a BTP destination. Also, aspects like credential rotation is provided out-of-the box.

Reviewer: Service Binding is a general concept not necessarily coupled to BTP. I don't think we need to mention BTP here.

> If the remote API is running on the BTP, it is likely that you can leverage Service Binding-based _Remote Services_. The CAP Java SDK will extract the relevant information from the service binding to connect to the remote API. The advantage over destination-based _Remote Services_ is the simpler usage. There is no need to externalize configuration (e.g. credentials) for example into a BTP destination. Also, aspects like credential rotation is provided out-of-the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the remote API is running on the BTP, it is likely that you can leverage Service Binding-based _Remote Services_. The CAP Java SDK will extract the relevant information from the service binding to connect to the remote API. The advantage over service-binding-based _Remote Services_ is the simpler usage. There is no need to manually externalize configuration (e.g. credentials) for example into a BTP destination. Also, aspects like credential rotation is provided out-of-the box.
```

> In the following example, the remote API is running as another CAP application within the the same SaaS application. Both the calling CAP application and the _Remote Service_ are bound to the same (shared) xsuaa service instance and, thus, accept JWT tokens issued by the single xsuaa instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the remote API is running as another CAP application within the same SaaS application. Both the calling CAP application and the _Remote Service_ are bound to the same (shared) xsuaa service instance and, thus, accept JWT tokens issued by the single xsuaa instance.
```

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: "s4-business-partner-api"
```

Remote Services use a CDS service definition from the CDS model as specification of the remote API. This API specification is required in order to properly translate CQN statements into respective OData V2 and V4 requests.

By default the CDS service definition is looked up in the CDS model using the name of the _Remote Service_.

The `type` property defines the protocol used by the remote API. The CAP Java SDK currently supports `odata-v4` (default) or `odata-v2`.

::: tip
You can use the `cds import` command to generate a CDS service definition from an EDMX API specification.
To learn more about this, have a look at section [Importing Service Definitions](../../guides/using-services#import-api).
:::

[Learn about all `cds.remote.services` configuration possibilities in our **CDS Properties Reference**.](../developing-applications/properties#cds-remote-services){.learn-more}

### Using BTP Destinations { #destination-based-scenarios }

> If your _Remote Service_ is running outside the BTP, you typically need to separately obtain the URL and additional metadata like credentials from the service provider. You can leverage BTP Destinations or programmatically register a destination with Cloud SDK to persist them for usage in your CAP application.

Author: In other sections, we distinguish between the _remote API_ and the _Remote Service_. According to this, it would be:
 
```suggestion
If your _remote API_ is running outside the BTP, you typically need to separately obtain the URL and additional metadata like credentials from the service provider. You can leverage BTP Destinations or programmatically register a destination with Cloud SDK to persist them for usage in your CAP application.
```

> If your _Remote Service_ is running outside the BTP, you typically need to separately obtain the URL and additional metadata like credentials from the service provider. You can leverage BTP Destinations or programmatically register a destination with Cloud SDK to persist them for usage in your CAP application.

Reviewer: Yes, sounds good 👍

Based on the following configuration, a destination with name `s4-business-partner-api` will be looked up via the Cloud SDK:

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
```

The CAP Java SDK obtains the destination for a _Remote Service_ from the `DestinationAccessor` using the name, that is configured in the _Remote Service_'s destination configuration.

If you're using the SAP BTP Destination Service, this is the name you used when you defined the destination there. In order to properly resolve the destination from the correct source (e.g. BTP Destination Service, programmatically registered destination), [additional Cloud SDK dependencies](#cloud-sdk-dependencies) will be required.

In multi-tenant scenarios, the BTP Destination Service will try to lookup the destination from the subaccount of the current tenant set on the `RequestContext`. This is not restricted to subscriber tenants, but also includes the provider tenant.

::: tip

> As a pre-requisite for destination lookup in subscriber accounts, the CAP application need to define a dependency to the Destination service for their subscriptions e.g. in the SaaS Registry. This can be enabled by setting the `cds.multiTenancy.dependences.destination` to `true` in the configuration.

Reviewer 2: ?
```suggestion
As a prerequisite for destination lookup in subscriber accounts, the CAP application needs to define a dependency to the Destination service for their subscriptions, for example, in the SaaS registry. This can be enabled by setting the `cds.multiTenancy.dependencies.destination` to `true` in the configuration.
```

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
      retrievalStrategy: "AlwaysSubscriber"
```

Retrieval strategies are part of a set of configuration options provided by Cloud SDK which are exposed by CAP Java as part of the configuration for _Remote Services_. For details refer to section about [destination strategies](#destination-strategies).

### Using BTP Service Bindings { #service-binding-based-scenarios }

If the remote API is running on SAP BTP, it is likely that you can leverage Service Binding-based _Remote Services_. 
The CAP Java SDK will extract the relevant information from the service binding to connect to the remote API. The advantage of service-binding-based _Remote Services_ is the much simpler usage. 
A service binding abstracts from several aspects of remote service communication. For instance, it provides authentication information, the location and optionally parameters. 

> In contrast to BTP destinations in general, it can be created and refreshed by a technical user which allows automatic credential rotation.

Author: I think that was change by Matthias on Friday. He probably meant that the automatic credential rotation is not happening out of the sudden, but that it needs to be triggered eg. by a technical user who is restarting the app. 
Proposal:
```suggestion
In contrast to BTP destinations in general, it can be created and refreshed as part of the application lifecycle (ie. application deployment).
```

> In contrast to BTP destinations in general, it can be created and refreshed by a technical user which allows automatic credential rotation.

Reviewer: 👍

> Hence, location and security aspects of remote services is transparent to CAP applications in case of service bindings.

Author: True. I removed the sentence

#### Binding to Local Service

> In the following example, the remote API is running as another CAP application within the same SaaS application. Both the calling CAP application and the _Remote Service_ are bound to the same (shared) XSUAA service instance and, thus, accept JWT tokens issued by the single XSUAA instance.

Author: Again stick to _remote API_?

- `systemUserProvider` to explicitly switch to the system user of the provider tenant (technical user flow).

`systemUserProvider` is especially helpful when you need to establish an internal communication channel that is not accessible for subscriber tenants.

As the URL typically is not known at development time, it can be alternatively defined as an environment variable `CDS_REMOTE_SERVICES_<name>_OPTIONS_URL`.

#### Binding to a Reuse Service

In a variant of this scenario, the _Remote Service_ is exposed by a BTP Service itself which is exposed as reuse service. 
Typically, this exposure happens by the means of a service broker so that the consuming CAP application can create service instances of the BTP Service.

The CAP application requires a service binding to this BTP service in order to consume the remote API as a _Remote Service_. In contrast to pure XSUAA instances, service instances of BTP Services exposing remote APIs will additionally expose the URL of the remote API in their service binding. 
Thus, there is no need to explicitly define it as part of the `application.yaml` like in the following example:

```yaml
cds:

>   remote.services:
>   - name: "BizParterService"
>     binding:
>       name: biz_partner_svc

Reviewer 2: So we don't need any of that config?
```suggestion
  remote.services: // [!code --]
  - name: "BizParterService" // [!code --]
    binding: // [!code --]
      name: biz_partner_svc // [!code --]
```

Author: We need the configuration, but we don´t need the `url` property. The word "it" from line 159 refers to the url, not the complete configuration

- `systemUser` to explicitly switch to the underlying system user of the current subscriber tenant (technical user flow).
- `systemUserProvider` to explicitly switch to the system user of the provider tenant (technical user flow).

`systemUserProvider` is especially helpful when you need to establish an internal communication channel that is not accessible for subscriber tenants.

As the URL typically is not known at development time, it can be alternatively defined as an environment variable `CDS_REMOTE_SERVICES_<name>_OPTIONS_URL`.

#### Binding to a Reuse Service

In a variant of this scenario, the _Remote Service_ is exposed by a BTP Service itself, which is exposed as a reuse service. 
Typically, this exposure happens by the means of a service broker so that the consuming CAP application can create service instances of the BTP Service.

The CAP application requires a service binding to this BTP service to consume the remote API as a _Remote Service_. In contrast to pure XSUAA instances, service instances of BTP Services exposing remote APIs additionally expose the URL of the remote API in their service binding. 

> Thus, there's no need to explicitly define it as part of the `application.yaml` like in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So you can omit the URL from the configuration in the `application.yaml`, like in the following example:
```

The following example, shows how you can configure _Remote Services_ in Spring Boot's _application.yaml_ based on a BTP destination:

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: "s4-business-partner-api"
```

Remote Services use a CDS service definition from the CDS model as specification of the remote API. This API specification is required in order to properly translate CQN statements into respective OData V2 and V4 requests.

By default the CDS service definition is looked up in the CDS model using the name of the _Remote Service_.

The `type` property defines the protocol used by the remote API. The CAP Java SDK currently supports `odata-v4` (default) or `odata-v2`.

::: tip
You can use the `cds import` command to generate a CDS service definition from an EDMX API specification.
To learn more about this, have a look at section [Importing Service Definitions](../../guides/using-services#import-api).
:::

[Learn about all `cds.remote.services` configuration possibilities in our **CDS Properties Reference**.](../java/developing-applications/properties#cds-remote-services){.learn-more}

> ### Destination Configuration { #destination-based-scenarios }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Using BTP Destinations { #destination-based-scenarios }
```

:::

[Learn more about destinations in the **SAP Cloud SDK documentation**.](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/docs/java/features/connectivity/sdk-connectivity-destination-service){.learn-more}

As a variant to the described scenario, it is possible to restrict the lookup to either subscriber tenants or the provider tenant. In the following example, it is ensured that the destination is only looked up from the current subscriber tenant by additional parameter `retrievalStrategy: "AlwaysSubscriber"`. Even if the provider tenant contained a destination with the same name, it will be ignored.

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
      retrievalStrategy: "AlwaysSubscriber"
```

Retrieval strategies are part of a set of configuration options provided by Cloud SDK which are exposed by CAP Java as part of the configuration for _Remote Services_. For details refer to section about [destination strategies](#destination-strategies).

> ### Service Binding Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Using BTP Reuse Services
```

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    binding:
      name: biz_partner_svc
```

In most cases, CAP Java SDK does not understand the service binding structure of the specific BTP Service. As the CAP Java SDK internally leverages Cloud SDK, it is required to contribute a mapping by the means of a Cloud SDK´s `PropertySupplier`. This `PropertySupplier` needs to be registered with the Cloud SDK once for example on application startup.

```java
static {
    OAuth2ServiceBindingDestinationLoader.registerPropertySupplier(
        options -> options.getServiceBinding().getTags().contains("<tag_biz_partner_svc>"),
            XsuaaOAuth2PropertySupplier::new);
}
```

The parameter `<tag_biz_partner_svc>` needs to be replaced by the concrete name of the tag provided in the binding of the BTP Service. Alternatively, a check on the service name can be chosen as well.

> ### Overriding the CDS Service Definition

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Configuring the CDS Service Name
```

#### Service Binding-based Scenarios
Service Binding-based _Remote Services_ are the desired solution if the _Remote Service_ is running on the BTP. The CAP Java SDK will extract the relevant information from the service binding to connect to the _Remote Service_. Service binding-based _Remote Services_ have the advantage over destination-based _Remote Services_ of simpler usage because there is no need to externalize configuration (e.g. credentials) into a destination. Also, aspects like credential rotation is provided out-of-the box.

##### Intra-application communication
In this scenario, the _Remote Service_ is running as another micro service within the the same SaaS application. Both the calling CAP application and the _Remote Service_ are bound to the same (shared) xsuaa service instance. 

```yaml
cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    type: "odata-v2"
    http:
      suffix: "/sap/opu/odata/sap"
    binding:
      name: shared-xsuaa
      onBehalfOf: currentUser

>     options:
>       url: https://url-of-the-second-cap-application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      options:
        url: https://url-of-the-second-cap-application
```

Reviewer: identations is not right I think

```

> In the given example, both CAP applications need to be bound to the same service instance `shared-xsuaa`. As service bindings of type xsuaa include neither the url to the _Remote Service_ nor the concrete authentication details (e.g. technical/system user or named user flow), these need to be explicitly defined in the configuration. 

Reviewer: I would say that the binding contains authentication details (in a sense of clientid and clientsecret). In general I think a service binding in BTP almost never contains any indicators of the authentication strategy that should be used. This is usually a client-side decision. So this is not only the case for service bindings of type `xsuaa`.

cds:
  remote.services:
  - name: "API_BUSINESS_PARTNER"
    http:
      suffix: "/sap/opu/odata/sap"
    destination:
      name: s4-business-partner-api
```

In this case, the destination with name `s4-business-partner-api` would be obtained from the `DestinationAccessor`.
Given that this destination holds the URL `https://s4.sap.com`, the resulting service URL for OData requests would be `https://s4.sap.com/sap/opu/odata/sap/API_BUSINESS_PARTNER`.

> ## Using Remote Services

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Consuming Remote Services
```

```java
@Autowired
@Qualifier(ApiBusinessPartner_.CDS_NAME)
CqnService bupa;

CqnSelect select = Select.from(ABusinessPartnerAddress_.class)
    .where(a -> a.BusinessPartner().eq("4711"));

ABusinessPartnerAddress address = bupa.run(select)
    .single(ABusinessPartnerAddress.class);
```
::: tip
To learn more about how to build and run CQN queries, see sections [Building CQN Queries](query-api) and [Executing CQN Queries](query-execution).
:::

Keep in mind, that _Remote Services_ are simply clients to remote APIs.
CAP doesn't automatically forward CQN queries to these services. Developers need to explicitly call and use these _Remote Services_ in their code.
However, as _Remote Services_ are based on the common CQN query APIs it's easy to use them in event handlers of your [Application Services](consumption-api#application-services).
::: warning
In case data from _Remote Services_ should be combined with data from the database custom coding is required.
Refer to the [Integrate and Extend guide](../guides/using-services#integrate-and-extend) for more details.
:::

> ## Additional Cloud SDK Integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Cloud SDK Integration
```
